As we've seen in the two previous modules,
components are very important in Angular.
But these components are made to interact with the user,
not to process complex business logic.
That's the role of a service.
In Angular a service is a TypeScript class whose role is to process
business logic and has no graphical representation.
It can share data and behavior across multiple components.
These services can then be injected into components and also
inject other external services if needed.
A service is a TypeScript class that defines attributes or methods.
Here the method countBooks returns a number and takes no argument.
This code could actually be enough.
If we want to inject this service in our components,
we have to add the decorator Injectable,
which comes from angular/core.
How do we use this service in our book-list.
component?
The BookListComponent displays the number of books on the top of the page.
So what we want to do is when the component initializes,
it invokes the countBooks method of our bookService.
This method returns the number 3, therefore this.
nbBooks = 3.
Good.
But where is this bookService coming from?
We use the injection mechanism built in Angular.
In the constructor of the component we define the variable
lowercase bookService of type BookService.
And this is enough for Angular to inject the bookService into this component,
so we can just use it by writing this.
bookService.
Let's come back to our bookService.
Something is not right here.
We don't want to return a fixed value here, number 3.
What we want is invoke our REST APIs that returns the
number of books from the database.
So let's change this and do an http.
get on our /books/count endpoint.
I'm sure you wonder where this.
http comes from.
Well,
we've injected it in our constructor and imported
it from the Angular HTTP module.
This invokes our Java EE back-end via an HTTP call,
gets the number of books and returns a number.
Well, not really.
The Angular HTTP module doesn't return a number.
It returns an observable of a number.
The observable is the reactive API mentioned at the beginning of this
module and it comes from RxJS module or Reactive JavaScript.
So let's step back, what is an observable?
The observable is the main API for reactive programming
that we find in JavaScript with RxJS, but also in Java with RxJava.
Reactive programming is event-driven,
that means we built an application based on events.
You send an event you subscribe to this event if you are interested in it,
and then combine, filter, or group several events together.
Angular is built on reactive programming, so is the HTTP module of Angular.
As an example, let's build an observable from an array of digits.
This line of code will actually do nothing,
that's because we need to subscribe to an observable.
This means that for each digit, that we call x here, we log it to the console.
So this code will just display 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 to the console.
Then we can apply computation on these events using the map.
Here we take an x and multiply it by 10.
So if we take our 5 numbers, apply the map function, we get 10, 20, 30, 40, 50.
We've multiplied each of our numbers by 10.
And we can filter these events.
Here we only take x if x is greater than 25.
We've mapped our numbers so we now have 10,
20, 30, 40, 50, we apply a filter and only get 30,
40, 50, which are greater than 25.
All this in only a few lines of code.
Reactive programming is way much richer than this example
and could be covered on its own course. But this is enough for what we want to do.